docs/code-quality/lint/linters/typescript.rst, before:

TypeScript
==========

`TypeScript`__ is being used as a type checker for JavaScript.

This is a new linter that is being set up and readied for production use. Please
discuss with `Mark Banner (standard8) <https://people.mozilla.org/s?query=standard8>`__
before setting up new projects.

Run Locally
-----------

The mozlint integration of TypeScript can be run using mach:

.. parsed-literal::

    $ mach lint --linter typescript <file paths>

Alternatively, omit the ``--linter typescript`` and run all configured linters, which will include
TypeScript.

TypeScript does not support the ``--fix`` option.

See the `Usage guide`_ for more options.

Understanding Rules and Errors
------------------------------

* Only some files are linted, see the :searchfox:`configuration <tools/lint/typescript.yml>` for details.

  * By design we do not lint/format reftests nor crashtests as these are specially crafted tests.

Common Issues and How To Solve Them
-----------------------------------

This code should neither be linted nor formatted
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* If it is a third-party piece of code, please add it to :searchfox:`ThirdPartyPaths.txt <tools/rewriting/ThirdPartyPaths.txt>`.
* If it is a generated file, please add it to :searchfox:`Generated.txt <tools/rewriting/Generated.txt>`.

Configuration
-------------

Individual components are configured via TypeScript ``tsconfig.json`` files in the
project directory.

Sources
-------

* :searchfox:`Configuration (YAML) <tools/lint/typescript.yml>`
* :searchfox:`Source <tools/lint/typescript/__init__.py>`

Builders
--------

`Mark Banner (standard8) <https://people.mozilla.org/s?query=standard8>`__ owns
the builders. Questions can also be asked on #lint:mozilla.org on Matrix.

TypeScript task
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This is a tier-3 task whilst it is under development. This is hidden from the
default view but will report via the code review bot. Issues should be fixed if
possible. If uncertain check with the appropriate team.

For test harness issues, file bugs in Developer Infrastructure :: Lint and Formatting.


.. __: https://www.typescriptlang.org/
.. _Usage guide: ../usage.html

Commit message:

Bug 1975521 - Add initial documentation for TypeScript. r=frontend-codestyle-reviewers,mossop
Differential Revision: https://phabricator.services.mozilla.com/D268571

UltraBlame original commit: 41d51230e0d5317c4fd9260850d7a3d6b6fe0bfc

docs/code-quality/lint/linters/typescript.rst, after:

TypeScript
==========

`TypeScript`__ is being used as a type checker for JavaScript.

This is a new linter that is being set up and readied for production use. Please
see `this page`_ before setting up new projects.

Run Locally
-----------

The mozlint integration of TypeScript can be run using mach:

.. parsed-literal::

    $ mach lint --linter typescript <file paths>

Alternatively, omit the ``--linter typescript`` and run all configured linters, which will include
TypeScript.

TypeScript does not support the ``--fix`` option.

See the `Usage guide`_ for more options.

Understanding Rules and Errors
------------------------------

* Only some files are linted, see the :searchfox:`configuration <tools/lint/typescript.yml>` for details.

  * By design we do not lint/format reftests nor crashtests as these are specially crafted tests.

Common Issues and How To Solve Them
-----------------------------------

This code should neither be linted nor formatted
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* If it is a third-party piece of code, please add it to :searchfox:`ThirdPartyPaths.txt <tools/rewriting/ThirdPartyPaths.txt>`.
* If it is a generated file, please add it to :searchfox:`Generated.txt <tools/rewriting/Generated.txt>`.

Configuration
-------------

Individual components are configured via TypeScript ``tsconfig.json`` files in the
project directory.

Sources
-------

* :searchfox:`Configuration (YAML) <tools/lint/typescript.yml>`
* :searchfox:`Source <tools/lint/typescript/__init__.py>`

Builders
--------

`Mark Banner (standard8) <https://people.mozilla.org/s?query=standard8>`__ owns
the builders. Questions can also be asked on #lint:mozilla.org on Matrix.

TypeScript task
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

This is a tier-3 task whilst it is under development. This is hidden from the
default view but will report via the code review bot. Issues should be fixed if
possible. If uncertain check with the appropriate team.

For test harness issues, file bugs in Developer Infrastructure :: Lint and Formatting.


.. __: https://www.typescriptlang.org/
.. _this page: ../../typescript/index.html
.. _Usage guide: ../usage.html
