testing/marionette/doc/Testing.md, before:

Running tests
=============

We verify and test Marionette in a couple of different ways.  The
server uses a combination of xpcshell unit tests and functional
Python-based tests written with the Marionette harness and WPT; the
client is tested with the same harness; and the Marionette test
harness uses a collection of Python tests.

Additionally, for debugging hard-to-reproduce test failures in CI,
a one-click loaner from [Taskcluster] can be used.

[TaskCluster]: Taskcluster.html


Setup
-----

Marionette-based tests can be run through `mach` with a local
checkout of _central_ and a build of Firefox, as well as out-of-tree
with the `marionette` test harness.

Running in-tree tests, `mach` will automatically manage the Python
virtual environment in which your tests are run.  The Marionette
client that is picked up is the one that is in-tree at
_testing/marionette/client_.

If you want to run tests from a downloaded test archive, you will
need to download the `target.common.tests.zip` artifact as attached
to Treeherder [build jobs] `B` for your system.  Extract that file
and set up the Python Marionette client and harness by executing
the following command in a virtual environment:

	% pip install -r config/marionette_requirements.txt

The tests can then be found under
_marionette/tests/testing/marionette/harness/marionette_harness/tests_ and
can be executed with the command `marionette`.  It supports the
same options as described below for `mach`.

[build jobs]: https://treeherder.mozilla.org/#/jobs?repo=mozilla-central&filter-searchStr=build


xpcshell unit tests
-------------------

Marionette has a set of [xpcshell] unit tests located in
_testing/marionette/test*.js_.  These can be run this way:

	% ./mach test testing/marionette/test/unit

Because tests are run in parallel and xpcshell itself is quite
chatty, it can sometimes be useful to run the tests sequentially:

	% ./mach test --sequential testing/marionette/test/unit/test_error.js

These unit tests run as part of the `X` jobs on Treeherder.

[xpcshell]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/QA/Writing_xpcshell-based_unit_tests


Marionette functional tests
---------------------------

We also have a set of functional tests that make use of the Marionette
Python client.  These start a Firefox process and tests the Marionette
protocol input and output.  The following command will run all
tests:

	% ./mach marionette test

But you can also run individual tests:

	% ./mach marionette test testing/marionette/harness/marionette_harness/tests/unit/test_navigation.py

In case you want to run the tests with another Firefox binary:

	% ./mach marionette test --binary /path/to/firefox TEST

When working on Marionette it is often useful to surface the stdout
from Firefox, which can be achived using the `--gecko-log` option.
See [Debugging] for usage instructions.

As these are functional integration tests and pop up Firefox windows
sporadically, a helpful tip is to suppress the window whilst you
are running them by using Firefox’ [headless mode]:

	% ./mach marionette test -z TEST

`-z` is an alias for `--headless` and equivalent to setting the
`MOZ_HEADLESS` output variable.  In addition to `MOZ_HEADLESS` there
is also `MOZ_HEADLESS_WIDTH` and `MOZ_HEADLESS_HEIGHT` for controlling
the dimensions of the no-op virtual display.  This is similar to
using xvfb(1) which you may know from the X windowing system, but
has the additional benefit of also working on macOS and Windows.

These functional tests will run as part of the `Mn` job on Treeherder.

In addition to these two test types that specifically test the
Marionette protocol, Marionette is used as the backend for the
[geckodriver] WebDriver implementation.  It is served by a WPT test
suite which effectively tests conformance to the W3C specification.

[Debugging]: Debugging.html
[headless mode]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/Firefox/Headless_mode
[geckodriver]: ../geckodriver/README.md


WPT functional tests
--------------------

Marionette is also indirectly tested through [geckodriver] with
WPT.  WPT tests for WebDriver turn up with the `Wd` try job and can
be run this way:

	% ./mach wpt testing/web-platform/tests/webdriver/tests

This command supports a `--webdriver-arg '-vv'` argument which
enables more detailed logging, as well as `--jsdebugger` for opening
the Browser Toolbox.


Harness tests
-------------

The Marionette harness Python package has a set of unit tests, which
are written by using the [pytest] framework. The following command
will run all tests:

	% ./mach python-test testing/marionette/

To run a specific test specify the full path to the module:

	% ./mach python-test testing/marionette/harness/marionette_harness/tests/harness_unit/test_serve.py

[pytest]: https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/

Commit message:

NO BUG - Migrate docs on how to run Mn on Fennec. r=me
MozReview-Commit-ID: GQaEHUBfgAj

UltraBlame original commit: 9509a7028644878202c1cd2fa61a83e1a397a70a

testing/marionette/doc/Testing.md, after:

Running tests
=============

We verify and test Marionette in a couple of different ways.  The
server uses a combination of xpcshell unit tests and functional
Python-based tests written with the Marionette harness and WPT; the
client is tested with the same harness; and the Marionette test
harness uses a collection of Python tests.

Additionally, for debugging hard-to-reproduce test failures in CI,
a one-click loaner from [Taskcluster] can be used.

[TaskCluster]: Taskcluster.html


Setup
-----

Marionette-based tests can be run through `mach` with a local
checkout of _central_ and a build of Firefox, as well as out-of-tree
with the `marionette` test harness.

Running in-tree tests, `mach` will automatically manage the Python
virtual environment in which your tests are run.  The Marionette
client that is picked up is the one that is in-tree at
_testing/marionette/client_.

If you want to run tests from a downloaded test archive, you will
need to download the `target.common.tests.zip` artifact as attached
to Treeherder [build jobs] `B` for your system.  Extract that file
and set up the Python Marionette client and harness by executing
the following command in a virtual environment:

	% pip install -r config/marionette_requirements.txt

The tests can then be found under
_marionette/tests/testing/marionette/harness/marionette_harness/tests_ and
can be executed with the command `marionette`.  It supports the
same options as described below for `mach`.

[build jobs]: https://treeherder.mozilla.org/#/jobs?repo=mozilla-central&filter-searchStr=build


xpcshell unit tests
-------------------

Marionette has a set of [xpcshell] unit tests located in
_testing/marionette/test*.js_.  These can be run this way:

	% ./mach test testing/marionette/test/unit

Because tests are run in parallel and xpcshell itself is quite
chatty, it can sometimes be useful to run the tests sequentially:

	% ./mach test --sequential testing/marionette/test/unit/test_error.js

These unit tests run as part of the `X` jobs on Treeherder.

[xpcshell]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/QA/Writing_xpcshell-based_unit_tests


Marionette functional tests
---------------------------

We also have a set of functional tests that make use of the Marionette
Python client.  These start a Firefox process and tests the Marionette
protocol input and output.  The following command will run all
tests:

	% ./mach marionette test

But you can also run individual tests:

	% ./mach marionette test testing/marionette/harness/marionette_harness/tests/unit/test_navigation.py

In case you want to run the tests with another Firefox binary:

	% ./mach marionette test --binary /path/to/firefox TEST

To run tests on Fennec:

	% ./mach marionette test --emulator --app 'fennec' --avd-home /path/to/.mozbuild/android-device/avd --emulator-binary /path/to/.mozbuild/android-sdk-macosx/tools/emulator

For Fennec tests, if you have an `AVD_HOME` environment variable
and if  the emulator command is in your `PATH`, you may omit the
`--avd-home` and `--emulator-binary` arguments.  See `./mach
marionette test -h` for additional options.  It is for example
possible to specify x86/ARM and so on.

When working on Marionette it is often useful to surface the stdout
from Gecko, which can be achived using the `--gecko-log` option.
See [Debugging] for usage instructions.

As these are functional integration tests and pop up Firefox windows
sporadically, a helpful tip is to suppress the window whilst you
are running them by using Firefox’ [headless mode]:

	% ./mach marionette test -z TEST

`-z` is an alias for `--headless` and equivalent to setting the
`MOZ_HEADLESS` output variable.  In addition to `MOZ_HEADLESS` there
is also `MOZ_HEADLESS_WIDTH` and `MOZ_HEADLESS_HEIGHT` for controlling
the dimensions of the no-op virtual display.  This is similar to
using xvfb(1) which you may know from the X windowing system, but
has the additional benefit of also working on macOS and Windows.

To connect to an already-running Fennec instance either in an
emulator or on a device, you will need to enable Marionette manually.
You can do this by building with `ac_add_options --enable-marionette`
and adding a boolean preference named `marionette.enabled` set to
true in your profile.  Once this preference has been set you will
need to restart Fennec for it to take effect.

	adb forward tcp:2828 tcp:2828
	./mach marionette test --address 'localhost:2828'

These functional tests will run as part of the `Mn` job on Treeherder.

In addition to these two test types that specifically test the
Marionette protocol, Marionette is used as the backend for the
[geckodriver] WebDriver implementation.  It is served by a WPT test
suite which effectively tests conformance to the W3C specification.

[Debugging]: Debugging.html
[headless mode]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/Firefox/Headless_mode
[geckodriver]: ../geckodriver/README.md


WPT functional tests
--------------------

Marionette is also indirectly tested through [geckodriver] with
WPT.  WPT tests for WebDriver turn up with the `Wd` try job and can
be run this way:

	% ./mach wpt testing/web-platform/tests/webdriver/tests

This command supports a `--webdriver-arg '-vv'` argument which
enables more detailed logging, as well as `--jsdebugger` for opening
the Browser Toolbox.


Harness tests
-------------

The Marionette harness Python package has a set of unit tests, which
are written by using the [pytest] framework. The following command
will run all tests:

	% ./mach python-test testing/marionette/

To run a specific test specify the full path to the module:

	% ./mach python-test testing/marionette/harness/marionette_harness/tests/harness_unit/test_serve.py

[pytest]: https://docs.pytest.org/en/latest/
