servo/CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Servo

Servo welcomes contribution from everyone. Here are the guidelines if you are
thinking of helping us:


## Contributions

Contributions to Servo or its dependencies should be made in the form of GitHub
pull requests. Each pull request will be reviewed by a core contributor
(someone with permission to land patches) and either landed in the main tree or
given feedback for changes that would be required. All contributions should
follow this format, even those from core contributors.

Should you wish to work on an issue, please claim it first by commenting on
the GitHub issue that you want to work on it. This is to prevent duplicated
efforts from contributors on the same issue.

Head over to [Servo Starters](http://servo.github.io/servo-starters/) to find
good tasks to start with.

See [`HACKING_QUICKSTART.md`](HACKING_QUICKSTART.md) for more information
on how to start working on Servo.

## Pull Request Checklist

- Branch from the master branch and, if needed, rebase to the current master
  branch before submitting your pull request. If it doesn't merge cleanly with
  master you may be asked to rebase your changes.

- Commits should be as small as possible, while ensuring that each commit is
  correct independently (i.e., each commit should compile and pass tests). 

- Don't put submodule updates in your pull request unless they are to landed
  commits.

- If your patch is not getting reviewed or you need a specific person to review
  it, you can @-reply a reviewer asking for a review in the pull request or a
  comment, or you can ask for a review in `#servo` on `irc.mozilla.org`.

- Add tests relevant to the fixed bug or new feature.  For a DOM change this
  will usually be a web platform test; for layout, a reftest.  See our [testing
  guide](https://github.com/servo/servo/wiki/Testing) for more information.

For specific git instructions, see [GitHub workflow 101](https://github.com/servo/servo/wiki/Github-workflow).

## Conduct

We follow the [Rust Code of Conduct](http://www.rust-lang.org/conduct.html).


## Communication

Servo contributors frequent the `#servo` channel on [`irc.mozilla.org`](https://wiki.mozilla.org/IRC).

You can also join the [`dev-servo` mailing list](https://lists.mozilla.org/listinfo/dev-servo).

Commit message:

servo: Merge #9744 - Add our CoC diffs (from larsbergstrom:coc); r=metajack
r? metajack

This just clarifies that we are the point of contact for Servo CoC issues, not the Rust Moderation team :-)

Source-Repo: https://github.com/servo/servo
Source-Revision: ccacdc0c853ffb9143ab46b760e1ab076cb9ac9a

UltraBlame original commit: 4f76d0fd04018fb6c4e0a52672968c00a8084ea4

servo/CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Servo

Servo welcomes contribution from everyone. Here are the guidelines if you are
thinking of helping us:


## Contributions

Contributions to Servo or its dependencies should be made in the form of GitHub
pull requests. Each pull request will be reviewed by a core contributor
(someone with permission to land patches) and either landed in the main tree or
given feedback for changes that would be required. All contributions should
follow this format, even those from core contributors.

Should you wish to work on an issue, please claim it first by commenting on
the GitHub issue that you want to work on it. This is to prevent duplicated
efforts from contributors on the same issue.

Head over to [Servo Starters](http://servo.github.io/servo-starters/) to find
good tasks to start with.

See [`HACKING_QUICKSTART.md`](HACKING_QUICKSTART.md) for more information
on how to start working on Servo.

## Pull Request Checklist

- Branch from the master branch and, if needed, rebase to the current master
  branch before submitting your pull request. If it doesn't merge cleanly with
  master you may be asked to rebase your changes.

- Commits should be as small as possible, while ensuring that each commit is
  correct independently (i.e., each commit should compile and pass tests). 

- Don't put submodule updates in your pull request unless they are to landed
  commits.

- If your patch is not getting reviewed or you need a specific person to review
  it, you can @-reply a reviewer asking for a review in the pull request or a
  comment, or you can ask for a review in `#servo` on `irc.mozilla.org`.

- Add tests relevant to the fixed bug or new feature.  For a DOM change this
  will usually be a web platform test; for layout, a reftest.  See our [testing
  guide](https://github.com/servo/servo/wiki/Testing) for more information.

For specific git instructions, see [GitHub workflow 101](https://github.com/servo/servo/wiki/Github-workflow).

## Conduct

In all Servo-related forums, we follow the [Rust Code of Conduct](http://www.rust-lang.org/conduct.html). For escalation or moderation issues, please contact Jack (jmoffitt@mozilla.com) and Lars (larsberg@mozilla.com) instead of the Rust moderation team.


## Communication

Servo contributors frequent the `#servo` channel on [`irc.mozilla.org`](https://wiki.mozilla.org/IRC).

You can also join the [`dev-servo` mailing list](https://lists.mozilla.org/listinfo/dev-servo).
