js/src/doc/JITOptimizations/Outcomes.md, before:

# JIT Optimization Outcomes

SpiderMonkey's optimizing JIT, IonMonkey, uses a number of different
optimization strategies to speed up various operations. The most commonplace
operations that are relevant for fast program execution are property accesses
and function calls.

This page documents the meaning of different optimization outcomes.

## General Outcomes

General outcomes shared between various optimization strategies.

### GenericFailure

The optimization attempt failed, and the reason was not recorded.

### GenericSuccess

Optimization succeeded.

### Disabled

The optimization has been explicitly disallowed.

### NoTypeInfo

Optimization failed because there was no type information associated with
object containing the property. This failure mode is unlikely, and occurs
if the target object is obtained in some roundabout way.

### NoAnalysisInfo

TODO

### NoShapeInfo

The baseline compiler recorded no usable shape information for this operation.

### UnknownObject

The type of the object is not known.  This can happen if the operation sees many different types of objects, and so the type of the input to the operation cannot be resolved to a single type.

### UnknownProperties

Optimization failed because the object containing the property was marked
as having unknown properties. This can happen if too many properties are
defined on the object, or if `delete` is used to remove one of the object's
properties.

### Singleton

One of the types present in the typeset was a singleton type, preventing the optimization from being enabled.

### NotSingleton

Optimization failed because the object containing the property did not
have a 'singleton' type. Singleton types are assigned to objects that are
"one of a kind", such as global objects, literal objects declared in the
global scope, and top-level function objects.

### NotFixedSlot

The property being accessed is not stored at a known location in the object.  This can occur if one of the expected types of objects to be used in this operation has unknown properties, or if different instances of the object store the property at different locations (for example, some instances have the property assigned in a different order than others).

### InconsistentFixedSlot

The property being accessed is not stored at a known location in the object.  This can occur if the operation is polymorphic on different object types and one or more of the object types contain the property at a different slot than the others.

### NotObject

Optimization failed because the stored in the property could potentially
be a non-object value.  Since only objects can be uniquely typed, the
optimization strategy fails in this case.

### NotStruct

The object holding the property is not a typed struct object.

### NotUnboxed

The object whose property is being accessed is not formatted as an
unboxed object.

### UnboxedConvertedToNative

The object whose property is being accessed was previously unboxed,
but was deoptimized and converted to a native object.

### StructNoField

The unboxed property being accessed does not correspond to a field on typed
object.

### InconsistentFieldType

The type of an unboxed field is not consistent across all the different types of objects it could be accessed from.

### InconsistentFieldOffset

The offset of an unboxed field is not consistent across all the different types of objects it could be accessed from.

### NeedsTypeBarrier

Optimization failed because somehow the property was accessed in a way
that returned a different type than the expected constant. This is an
unlikely failure mode, and should not occur.

### InDictionaryMode

The object whose property is being accessed is in dictionary mode.  Objects which are used in ways that suggest they are hashtables, are turned into dictionary objects and their types marked as such.

### NoProtoFound

A prototype object was not found for all the object used by this operation.

### MultiProtoPaths

Objects used in this operation had differing prototypes.

### NonWritableProperty

The property being assigned to is not writable for some types of objects which are used in this operation.

### ProtoIndexedProps

The object being accessed has indexed properties that are exotic (for example, defined as a property on a prototype object and left as a hole in the underlying object).

### ArrayBadFlags

The array being accessed may have flags that the optimization strategy cannot handle.  For example, if the array has sparse indexes, or has indexes that overflow the array's length, the optimization strategy may fail.

### ArrayDoubleConversion

The type-system indicates that some arrays at this site should be converted to packed arrays of doubles, while others should not.  The optimization strategy fails for this condition.

### ArrayRange

Could not accurately calculate the range attributes of an inline array creation.

### ArraySeenNegativeIndex

Arrays at this element access location have seen negative indexes.

### TypedObjectHasDetachedBuffer

The storage for the typed object being accessed at this location might be a detached ArrayBuffer.  (This can happen if the typed object, or its underlying buffer as accessed using `TypedObject.storage(typedObject).buffer`, is transferred using the structured clone algorithm.)

### TypedObjectArrayRange

Failed to do range check of element access on a typed object.

### AccessNotDense

### AccessNotSimdObject

The observed type of the target of the property access doesn't guarantee
that it is a SIMD object.

### AccessNotTypedObject

The observed type of the target of the property access doesn't guarantee
that it is a TypedObject.

### AccessNotTypedArray

The observed type of the target of the property access doesn't guarantee
that it is a TypedArray.

### AccessNotString

The observed type of the target of the property access doesn't guarantee
that it is a String.

### StaticTypedArrayUint32

Typed Arrays of uint32 values are not yet fully optimized.

### StaticTypedArrayCantComputeMask
### OutOfBounds

The element access has been observed to be out of the length bounds of
the string being accessed.

### GetElemStringNotCached

IonMonkey does not generate inline caches for element accesses on
target values which may be strings.

### NonNativeReceiver

IonMonkey does not generate inline caches for indexed element accesses on
target values which may be non-native objects (e.g. DOM elements).

### IndexType

IonMonkey does not generate inline caches for element reads in which
the keys have never been observed to be a String, Symbol, or Int32.

### SetElemNonDenseNonTANotCached

IonMonkey only generates inline caches for element accesses which are
either on dense objects (e.g. dense Arrays), or Typed Arrays.

### NoSimdJitSupport

Optimization failed because SIMD JIT support was not enabled.

### SimdTypeNotOptimized

The type observed as being retrieved from this property access did not
match an optimizable type.

### HasCommonInliningPath

Inlining was abandoned because the inlining call path was repeated.  A
repeated call path is indicative of a potentially mutually recursive
function call chain.

### Inlined

Method has been successfully inlined.

### DOM

Successfully optimized a call to a DOM getter or setter function.

### Monomorphic

Successfully optimized a guarded monomorphic property access.  This
property access is about twice as expensive as a definite property access.
A guarded monomorphic property access is basically a direct memory load
from an object, guarded by a type or shape check.  In pseucodcode:

    if HiddenType(obj) === CONSTANT_TYPE:
        return obj[CONSTANT_SLOT_OFFSET]
    else
        BAILOUT()

### Polymorphic

Successfully optimized a guarded polymorphic property access.  This
property access is similar to a monomorphic property access, except
that multiple different hidden types have been observed, and each of
them are being checked for.  In pseudocode:

    if HiddenType(obj) === CONSTANT_TYPE_1:
        return obj[CONSTANT_SLOT_OFFSET_1]
    elif HiddenType(obj) === CONSTANT_TYPE_2:
        return obj[CONSTANT_SLOT_OFFSET_2]
    ...
    elif HiddenType(obj) === CONSTANT_TYPE_K:
        return obj[CONSTANT_SLOT_OFFSET_K]
    else
        BAILOUT()

## Inline Cache Outcomes

Outcomes describing inline cache stubs that were generated.

### ICOptStub_GenericSuccess

Generic success condition for generating an optimized inline cache stub.

### ICGetPropStub_ReadSlot

An inline cache property read which loads a value from a known slot
location within an object.

### ICGetPropStub_CallGetter

An inline cache property read which calls a getter function.

### ICGetPropStub_ArrayLength

An inline cache property read which retrieves the length of an array
object.

### ICGetPropStub_UnboxedRead

An inline cache property read which retrieves an value from an unboxed
object.

### ICGetPropStub_UnboxedReadExpando

An inline cache property read which retrieves an value from the expando
component of an unboxed object.

### ICGetPropStub_UnboxedArrayLength

An inline cache property read which retrieves the length of an unboxed
array object.

### ICGetPropStub_TypedArrayLength

An inline cache property read which retrieves the length of an typed array
object.

### ICGetPropStub_DOMProxyShadowed

An inline cache property read which retrieves a shadowed property from a
DOM object.  A shadowed property is an inbuilt DOM property that has been
overwritten by JS code.

### ICGetPropStub_DOMProxyUnshadowed

An inline cache property read which retrieves an unshadowed property from
a DOM object.

### ICGetPropStub_GenericProxy

An inline cache property read which retrieves the property by calling into
a generic proxy trap.

### ICGetPropStub_ArgumentsLength

An inline cache property read which reads the length value from an
arguments object.

### ICSetPropStub_Slot

An inline cache property write which sets a value to a known slot location
in an object.

### ICSetPropStub_GenericProxy

An inline cache property write which sets the value by calling into a
generic proxy trap.

### ICSetPropStub_DOMProxyShadowed

An inline cache property write which sets a shadowed property from a DOM
object.  A shadowed property is an inbuilt DOM property that has been
overwritten by JS code.

### ICSetPropStub_DOMProxyUnshadowed

An inline cache property write which sets an unshadowed property on an
DOM object.

### ICSetPropStub_CallSetter

An inline cache property write which calls a setter function on an object.

### ICSetPropStub_AddSlot

An inline cache property write which adds a new slot to an object,
because the object is known to not have such a property already.

### ICSetPropStub_SetUnboxed

An inline cache property write which sets an unboxed value on an unboxed
object.

### ICGetElemStub_ReadSlot

An inline cache element read which loads a value from a known property
slot in an object.

### ICGetElemStub_CallGetter

An inline cache element read which calls a getter function on the object.

### ICGetElemStub_ReadUnboxed

An inline cache element read which loads an unboxed value from a known
property slot on an unboxed object.

### ICGetElemStub_Dense

An inline cache element read which loads an element from a dense array.

### ICGetElemStub_DenseHole

An inline cache element read which loads an element from a dense array
which might have a hole.

### ICGetElemStub_TypedArray

An inline cache element read which loads an element from a typed array.

### ICGetElemStub_ArgsElement

An inline cache element read which loads an element from an `arguments`
object.

### ICGetElemStub_ArgsElementStrict

An inline cache element read which loads an element from an `arguments`
object in strict mode.

### ICSetElemStub_Dense

An inline cache element write which sets an element on a dense array.

### ICSetElemStub_TypedArray

An inline cache element write which sets an element on a typed array.

### ICNameStub_ReadSlot

An inline cache element which loads a bare variable name from a slot on
a scope chain object.

### ICNameStub_CallGetter

An inline cache element which loads a bare variable name by calling a
getter function on the global object.

### ICNameStub_TypeOfNoProperty

An inline cache element which loads undefined for the type
of a missing property.

## Call Inlining Outcomes

Optimization outcomes of attempts to inline function calls.

### CantInlineGeneric

Generic failure-to-inline outcome.

### CantInlineClassConstructor

Cannot inline a class constructor function.

### CantInlineExceededDepth

Inlining stopped because inlining depth was exceeded.

### CantInlineExceededTotalBytecodeLength

Inlining stopped because the total bytecode length of all inlined
functions exceeded a threshold.

### CantInlineBigCaller

Inlining was aborted because the caller function is very large.

### CantInlineBigCallee

Inlining was aborted because the callee function is very large.

### CantInlineBigCalleeInlinedBytecodeLength

Inlining was aborted because the callee is known to inline a lot of code.

### CantInlineNotHot

Inlining was aborted because the callee is not hot enough.

### CantInlineNotInDispatch

This failure mode relates to inlining a method call of the form:

    obj.method()

where a hidden type check on the target object reveals the method to be
inlined.  If the property access for `method` does not identify
the method to be inlined, the inlining fails with this code.

### CantInlineNativeBadType

Inlining attempt of native function was aborted because the hidden
type for the function, or the result of the function, was not
compatible with one of the known inline-able native functions.

### CantInlineNoTarget

Unable to inline function call. The callee (target) function, f in f(x),
is not known at JIT time.

### CantInlineNotInterpreted

Unable to inline function call. The callee function is not an interpreted
function. For example, it could be a native function for which Ion has no
built-in specialization.

### CantInlineNoBaseline

Unable to inline function call. The interpreted callee function could not
be compiled by the Baseline compiler.

### CantInlineLazy

Unable to inline function call. The interpreted callee function has a
lazy, compiled on-demand script instead of an already compiled script.

### CantInlineNotConstructor

Unable to inline function call. Rare. The interpreted callee function is
invoked with new but cannot be called as a constructor. Property
accessors, Function.prototype, and arrow (=>) functions cannot be called
as constructors.

### CantInlineDisableIon

Unable to inline function call. The interpreted callee function has been
explicitly blacklisted against Ion compilation.

### CantInlineTooManyArgs

Unable to inline function call. The interpreted callee function either has
too many parameters or is called with too many arguments. These thresholds
are subject to change.

### CantInlineRecursive

Unable to inline function call. The interpreted callee function recurs for
more than one level.  The first level of recursion is inlineable.

### CantInlineHeavyweight

Unable to inline function call. The interpreted callee function contains
variables bindings that are closed over. For example,
`function f() { var x; return function () { x++; } }`
closes over x in f.

### CantInlineNeedsArgsObj

Unable to inline function call. The interpreted callee function requires
an arguments object to be created.

### CantInlineDebuggee

Unable to inline function call. The interpreted callee function is being
debugged by the Debugger API.

### CantInlineUnknownProps

Unable to inline function call. The engine knows nothing definite about
the type of the callee function object.

### CantInlineUnreachable

Unable to inline function call. The call site has not been observed to
have ever been executed.  It lacks observed type information for its arguments,
its return value, or both.

### CantInlineBound

Unable to inline function call. The interpreted callee is a bound function
generated from `Function.prototype.bind` that failed some sub-checks.
(expand)

### CantInlineNativeNoSpecialization

Unable to inline function call. Ion does not have built-in specialization for
the native (implemented in C++) callee function.

### CantInlineNativeBadForm

Unable to inline function call. The native callee function was called with an
unsupported number of arguments, or calling non-constructing functions with new.

### CantInlineBadType

Unable to inline function call. The native callee function was called with
arguments with types that the built-in specialization does not support. For
example, calling Math functions on objects.

### CantInlineNativeNoTemplateObj

Unable to inline function call. Cannot inline a native constructor (e.g., new
Array) because no template object was cached by the Baseline compiler. (expand)

Commit message:

Bug 1242578 - Add documentation about the binary arith annotations for jit coach, r=shu
UltraBlame original commit: 3bb724661e174762fe8d38a1bb7ec391682f1215

js/src/doc/JITOptimizations/Outcomes.md, after:

# JIT Optimization Outcomes

SpiderMonkey's optimizing JIT, IonMonkey, uses a number of different
optimization strategies to speed up various operations. The most commonplace
operations that are relevant for fast program execution are property accesses
and function calls.

This page documents the meaning of different optimization outcomes.

## General Outcomes

General outcomes shared between various optimization strategies.

### GenericFailure

The optimization attempt failed, and the reason was not recorded.

### GenericSuccess

Optimization succeeded.

### Disabled

The optimization has been explicitly disallowed.

### NoTypeInfo

Optimization failed because there was no type information associated with
object containing the property. This failure mode is unlikely, and occurs
if the target object is obtained in some roundabout way.

### NoAnalysisInfo

TODO

### NoShapeInfo

The baseline compiler recorded no usable shape information for this operation.

### UnknownObject

The type of the object is not known.  This can happen if the operation sees many different types of objects, and so the type of the input to the operation cannot be resolved to a single type.

### UnknownProperties

Optimization failed because the object containing the property was marked
as having unknown properties. This can happen if too many properties are
defined on the object, or if `delete` is used to remove one of the object's
properties.

### Singleton

One of the types present in the typeset was a singleton type, preventing the optimization from being enabled.

### NotSingleton

Optimization failed because the object containing the property did not
have a 'singleton' type. Singleton types are assigned to objects that are
"one of a kind", such as global objects, literal objects declared in the
global scope, and top-level function objects.

### NotFixedSlot

The property being accessed is not stored at a known location in the object.  This can occur if one of the expected types of objects to be used in this operation has unknown properties, or if different instances of the object store the property at different locations (for example, some instances have the property assigned in a different order than others).

### InconsistentFixedSlot

The property being accessed is not stored at a known location in the object.  This can occur if the operation is polymorphic on different object types and one or more of the object types contain the property at a different slot than the others.

### NotObject

Optimization failed because the stored in the property could potentially
be a non-object value.  Since only objects can be uniquely typed, the
optimization strategy fails in this case.

### NotStruct

The object holding the property is not a typed struct object.

### NotUnboxed

The object whose property is being accessed is not formatted as an
unboxed object.

### UnboxedConvertedToNative

The object whose property is being accessed was previously unboxed,
but was deoptimized and converted to a native object.

### StructNoField

The unboxed property being accessed does not correspond to a field on typed
object.

### InconsistentFieldType

The type of an unboxed field is not consistent across all the different types of objects it could be accessed from.

### InconsistentFieldOffset

The offset of an unboxed field is not consistent across all the different types of objects it could be accessed from.

### NeedsTypeBarrier

Optimization failed because somehow the property was accessed in a way
that returned a different type than the expected constant. This is an
unlikely failure mode, and should not occur.

### InDictionaryMode

The object whose property is being accessed is in dictionary mode.  Objects which are used in ways that suggest they are hashtables, are turned into dictionary objects and their types marked as such.

### NoProtoFound

A prototype object was not found for all the object used by this operation.

### MultiProtoPaths

Objects used in this operation had differing prototypes.

### NonWritableProperty

The property being assigned to is not writable for some types of objects which are used in this operation.

### ProtoIndexedProps

The object being accessed has indexed properties that are exotic (for example, defined as a property on a prototype object and left as a hole in the underlying object).

### ArrayBadFlags

The array being accessed may have flags that the optimization strategy cannot handle.  For example, if the array has sparse indexes, or has indexes that overflow the array's length, the optimization strategy may fail.

### ArrayDoubleConversion

The type-system indicates that some arrays at this site should be converted to packed arrays of doubles, while others should not.  The optimization strategy fails for this condition.

### ArrayRange

Could not accurately calculate the range attributes of an inline array creation.

### ArraySeenNegativeIndex

Arrays at this element access location have seen negative indexes.

### TypedObjectHasDetachedBuffer

The storage for the typed object being accessed at this location might be a detached ArrayBuffer.  (This can happen if the typed object, or its underlying buffer as accessed using `TypedObject.storage(typedObject).buffer`, is transferred using the structured clone algorithm.)

### TypedObjectArrayRange

Failed to do range check of element access on a typed object.

### AccessNotDense

### AccessNotSimdObject

The observed type of the target of the property access doesn't guarantee
that it is a SIMD object.

### AccessNotTypedObject

The observed type of the target of the property access doesn't guarantee
that it is a TypedObject.

### AccessNotTypedArray

The observed type of the target of the property access doesn't guarantee
that it is a TypedArray.

### AccessNotString

The observed type of the target of the property access doesn't guarantee
that it is a String.

### OperandNotString

Optimization failed because of failing to speculate the operand is a string.

### OperandNotNumber

Optimization failed because of failing to speculate the operand is a number.

### OperandNotStringOrNumber

Optimization failed because of failing to speculate the operand is a string or a number.

### OperandNotSimpleArith

Optimization failed because of failing to speculate the operand is a simple arithmetic type. I.e. definitely not an object, string, symbol or internal magic type.

### StaticTypedArrayUint32

Typed Arrays of uint32 values are not yet fully optimized.

### StaticTypedArrayCantComputeMask
### OutOfBounds

The element access has been observed to be out of the length bounds of
the string being accessed.

### GetElemStringNotCached

IonMonkey does not generate inline caches for element accesses on
target values which may be strings.

### NonNativeReceiver

IonMonkey does not generate inline caches for indexed element accesses on
target values which may be non-native objects (e.g. DOM elements).

### IndexType

IonMonkey does not generate inline caches for element reads in which
the keys have never been observed to be a String, Symbol, or Int32.

### SetElemNonDenseNonTANotCached

IonMonkey only generates inline caches for element accesses which are
either on dense objects (e.g. dense Arrays), or Typed Arrays.

### NoSimdJitSupport

Optimization failed because SIMD JIT support was not enabled.

### SimdTypeNotOptimized

The type observed as being retrieved from this property access did not
match an optimizable type.

### HasCommonInliningPath

Inlining was abandoned because the inlining call path was repeated.  A
repeated call path is indicative of a potentially mutually recursive
function call chain.

### Inlined

Method has been successfully inlined.

### DOM

Successfully optimized a call to a DOM getter or setter function.

### Monomorphic

Successfully optimized a guarded monomorphic property access.  This
property access is about twice as expensive as a definite property access.
A guarded monomorphic property access is basically a direct memory load
from an object, guarded by a type or shape check.  In pseucodcode:

    if HiddenType(obj) === CONSTANT_TYPE:
        return obj[CONSTANT_SLOT_OFFSET]
    else
        BAILOUT()

### Polymorphic

Successfully optimized a guarded polymorphic property access.  This
property access is similar to a monomorphic property access, except
that multiple different hidden types have been observed, and each of
them are being checked for.  In pseudocode:

    if HiddenType(obj) === CONSTANT_TYPE_1:
        return obj[CONSTANT_SLOT_OFFSET_1]
    elif HiddenType(obj) === CONSTANT_TYPE_2:
        return obj[CONSTANT_SLOT_OFFSET_2]
    ...
    elif HiddenType(obj) === CONSTANT_TYPE_K:
        return obj[CONSTANT_SLOT_OFFSET_K]
    else
        BAILOUT()

## Inline Cache Outcomes

Outcomes describing inline cache stubs that were generated.

### ICOptStub_GenericSuccess

Generic success condition for generating an optimized inline cache stub.

### ICGetPropStub_ReadSlot

An inline cache property read which loads a value from a known slot
location within an object.

### ICGetPropStub_CallGetter

An inline cache property read which calls a getter function.

### ICGetPropStub_ArrayLength

An inline cache property read which retrieves the length of an array
object.

### ICGetPropStub_UnboxedRead

An inline cache property read which retrieves an value from an unboxed
object.

### ICGetPropStub_UnboxedReadExpando

An inline cache property read which retrieves an value from the expando
component of an unboxed object.

### ICGetPropStub_UnboxedArrayLength

An inline cache property read which retrieves the length of an unboxed
array object.

### ICGetPropStub_TypedArrayLength

An inline cache property read which retrieves the length of an typed array
object.

### ICGetPropStub_DOMProxyShadowed

An inline cache property read which retrieves a shadowed property from a
DOM object.  A shadowed property is an inbuilt DOM property that has been
overwritten by JS code.

### ICGetPropStub_DOMProxyUnshadowed

An inline cache property read which retrieves an unshadowed property from
a DOM object.

### ICGetPropStub_GenericProxy

An inline cache property read which retrieves the property by calling into
a generic proxy trap.

### ICGetPropStub_ArgumentsLength

An inline cache property read which reads the length value from an
arguments object.

### ICSetPropStub_Slot

An inline cache property write which sets a value to a known slot location
in an object.

### ICSetPropStub_GenericProxy

An inline cache property write which sets the value by calling into a
generic proxy trap.

### ICSetPropStub_DOMProxyShadowed

An inline cache property write which sets a shadowed property from a DOM
object.  A shadowed property is an inbuilt DOM property that has been
overwritten by JS code.

### ICSetPropStub_DOMProxyUnshadowed

An inline cache property write which sets an unshadowed property on an
DOM object.

### ICSetPropStub_CallSetter

An inline cache property write which calls a setter function on an object.

### ICSetPropStub_AddSlot

An inline cache property write which adds a new slot to an object,
because the object is known to not have such a property already.

### ICSetPropStub_SetUnboxed

An inline cache property write which sets an unboxed value on an unboxed
object.

### ICGetElemStub_ReadSlot

An inline cache element read which loads a value from a known property
slot in an object.

### ICGetElemStub_CallGetter

An inline cache element read which calls a getter function on the object.

### ICGetElemStub_ReadUnboxed

An inline cache element read which loads an unboxed value from a known
property slot on an unboxed object.

### ICGetElemStub_Dense

An inline cache element read which loads an element from a dense array.

### ICGetElemStub_DenseHole

An inline cache element read which loads an element from a dense array
which might have a hole.

### ICGetElemStub_TypedArray

An inline cache element read which loads an element from a typed array.

### ICGetElemStub_ArgsElement

An inline cache element read which loads an element from an `arguments`
object.

### ICGetElemStub_ArgsElementStrict

An inline cache element read which loads an element from an `arguments`
object in strict mode.

### ICSetElemStub_Dense

An inline cache element write which sets an element on a dense array.

### ICSetElemStub_TypedArray

An inline cache element write which sets an element on a typed array.

### ICNameStub_ReadSlot

An inline cache element which loads a bare variable name from a slot on
a scope chain object.

### ICNameStub_CallGetter

An inline cache element which loads a bare variable name by calling a
getter function on the global object.

### ICNameStub_TypeOfNoProperty

An inline cache element which loads undefined for the type
of a missing property.

## Call Inlining Outcomes

Optimization outcomes of attempts to inline function calls.

### CantInlineGeneric

Generic failure-to-inline outcome.

### CantInlineClassConstructor

Cannot inline a class constructor function.

### CantInlineExceededDepth

Inlining stopped because inlining depth was exceeded.

### CantInlineExceededTotalBytecodeLength

Inlining stopped because the total bytecode length of all inlined
functions exceeded a threshold.

### CantInlineBigCaller

Inlining was aborted because the caller function is very large.

### CantInlineBigCallee

Inlining was aborted because the callee function is very large.

### CantInlineBigCalleeInlinedBytecodeLength

Inlining was aborted because the callee is known to inline a lot of code.

### CantInlineNotHot

Inlining was aborted because the callee is not hot enough.

### CantInlineNotInDispatch

This failure mode relates to inlining a method call of the form:

    obj.method()

where a hidden type check on the target object reveals the method to be
inlined.  If the property access for `method` does not identify
the method to be inlined, the inlining fails with this code.

### CantInlineNativeBadType

Inlining attempt of native function was aborted because the hidden
type for the function, or the result of the function, was not
compatible with one of the known inline-able native functions.

### CantInlineNoTarget

Unable to inline function call. The callee (target) function, f in f(x),
is not known at JIT time.

### CantInlineNotInterpreted

Unable to inline function call. The callee function is not an interpreted
function. For example, it could be a native function for which Ion has no
built-in specialization.

### CantInlineNoBaseline

Unable to inline function call. The interpreted callee function could not
be compiled by the Baseline compiler.

### CantInlineLazy

Unable to inline function call. The interpreted callee function has a
lazy, compiled on-demand script instead of an already compiled script.

### CantInlineNotConstructor

Unable to inline function call. Rare. The interpreted callee function is
invoked with new but cannot be called as a constructor. Property
accessors, Function.prototype, and arrow (=>) functions cannot be called
as constructors.

### CantInlineDisableIon

Unable to inline function call. The interpreted callee function has been
explicitly blacklisted against Ion compilation.

### CantInlineTooManyArgs

Unable to inline function call. The interpreted callee function either has
too many parameters or is called with too many arguments. These thresholds
are subject to change.

### CantInlineRecursive

Unable to inline function call. The interpreted callee function recurs for
more than one level.  The first level of recursion is inlineable.

### CantInlineHeavyweight

Unable to inline function call. The interpreted callee function contains
variables bindings that are closed over. For example,
`function f() { var x; return function () { x++; } }`
closes over x in f.

### CantInlineNeedsArgsObj

Unable to inline function call. The interpreted callee function requires
an arguments object to be created.

### CantInlineDebuggee

Unable to inline function call. The interpreted callee function is being
debugged by the Debugger API.

### CantInlineUnknownProps

Unable to inline function call. The engine knows nothing definite about
the type of the callee function object.

### CantInlineUnreachable

Unable to inline function call. The call site has not been observed to
have ever been executed.  It lacks observed type information for its arguments,
its return value, or both.

### CantInlineBound

Unable to inline function call. The interpreted callee is a bound function
generated from `Function.prototype.bind` that failed some sub-checks.
(expand)

### CantInlineNativeNoSpecialization

Unable to inline function call. Ion does not have built-in specialization for
the native (implemented in C++) callee function.

### CantInlineNativeBadForm

Unable to inline function call. The native callee function was called with an
unsupported number of arguments, or calling non-constructing functions with new.

### CantInlineBadType

Unable to inline function call. The native callee function was called with
arguments with types that the built-in specialization does not support. For
example, calling Math functions on objects.

### CantInlineNativeNoTemplateObj

Unable to inline function call. Cannot inline a native constructor (e.g., new
Array) because no template object was cached by the Baseline compiler. (expand)
