toolkit/components/uniffi-js/README.md, before:

# uniffi-js

This directory contains C++ helper code for the UniFFI Rust library
(https://github.com/mozilla/uniffi-rs/).

 - `UniFFIPointer.*` and `UniFFIPointerType.*` implement the `UniFFIPointer` WebIDL class

 - `UniFFI*Scaffolding.cpp` implements the `UniFFIScaffolding` WebIDL class.
   - UniFFIGeneratedScaffolding.cpp contains the generated code for all
     non-testing UDL files.
   - UniFFIFixtureScaffolding.cpp contains generated code for test fixture UDL
     files. It's only compiled if `--enable-uniffi-fixtures` is set.
   - UniFFIScaffolding.cpp is a facade that wraps UniFFIFixtureScaffolding, and
     UniFFIGeneratedScaffolding if enabled, to implement the interface.

- `ScaffoldingConverter.h`, `ScaffoldingCall.h` contain generic code to make
  the scaffolding calls.  In general, we try to keep the logic of the calls in
  these files and limit the generated code to routing call IDs to template
  classes defined here.

- `OwnedRustBuffer.*` implements a C++ class to help manager ownership of a RustBuffer.

- `UniFFIRust.h` contains definitions for the C functions that UniFFI exports.

Commit message:

Bug 1899351 - remove ScaffoldingCall.h.  r=nika,markh
The C++ templates were hard to understand and modify.  Instead of using
the templates, let's monomorphize by hand and generate equivalent
classes for each FFI function signature.

I tried a slightly different approach for the template code. .  In the
template struct itself, we now generate some simple Rust structs with
all the data the templates need. I like this because it's easier to
compute these values in Rust than in an Aksama template.

Differential Revision: https://phabricator.services.mozilla.com/D212342

UltraBlame original commit: 0e49d723519a410522279f1a5aa2728dfea81e03

toolkit/components/uniffi-js/README.md, after:

# uniffi-js

This directory contains C++ helper code for the UniFFI Rust library
(https://github.com/mozilla/uniffi-rs/).

 - `UniFFIPointer.*` and `UniFFIPointerType.*` implement the `UniFFIPointer` WebIDL class

 - `UniFFI*Scaffolding.cpp` implements the `UniFFIScaffolding` WebIDL class.
   - UniFFIGeneratedScaffolding.cpp contains the generated code for all
     non-testing UDL files.
   - UniFFIFixtureScaffolding.cpp contains generated code for test fixture UDL
     files. It's only compiled if `--enable-uniffi-fixtures` is set.
   - UniFFIScaffolding.cpp is a facade that wraps UniFFIFixtureScaffolding, and
     UniFFIGeneratedScaffolding if enabled, to implement the interface.

- `ScaffoldingConverter.h` contain helper code to convert values between JS and Rust.  This is used
    by the generated code to make scaffolding calls.

- `OwnedRustBuffer.*` implements a C++ class to help manager ownership of a RustBuffer.

- `UniFFIRust.h` contains definitions for the C functions that UniFFI exports.
