testing/web-platform/tests/docs/_writing-tests/testdriver.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: testdriver.js Automation
order: 8.5
---

testdriver.js provides a means to automate tests that cannot be
written purely using web platform APIs.

It is currently supported only for [testharness.js][testharness]
tests.

## API

testdriver.js exposes its API through the `test_driver` variable in
the global scope.

NB: presently, testdriver.js only works in the top-level test browsing
context (and not therefore in any frame or window opened from it).

### `test_driver.click(element)`
#### `element: a DOM Element object`

This function causes a click to occur on the target element (an
`Element` object), potentially scrolling the document to make it
possible to click it. It returns a `Promise` that resolves after the
click has occured or rejects if the element cannot be clicked (for
example, it is obscured by an element on top of it).

Note that if the element to be clicked does not have a unique ID, the
document must not have any DOM mutations made between the function
being called and the promise settling.

### `test_driver.send_keys(element, keys)`
#### `element: a DOM Element object`
#### `keys: string to send to the element`

This function causes the string `keys` to be send to the target
element (an `Element` object), potentially scrolling the document to
make it possible to send keys. It returns a `Promise` that resolves
after the keys have been send or rejects if the keys cannot be sent
to the element.

Note that if the element that's keys need to be send to does not have
a unique ID, the document must not have any DOM mutations made
between the function being called and the promise settling.

To send special keys, one must send the respective key's codepoint. Since this uses the WebDriver protocol, you can find a [list for code points to special keys in the spec](https://w3c.github.io/webdriver/webdriver-spec.html#keyboard-actions).
For example, to send the tab key you would send "\uE004".

[testharness]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link _writing-tests/testharness.md %}

Commit message:

Bug 1474071 [wpt PR 11840] - [testdriver.js] Document and test `bless` method, a=testonly
Automatic update from web-platform-tests[testdriver.js] Document and test `bless` method (#11840)

This new API was first introduced via [1]. Complete that initial work by
adding documentation and automated tests.

[1] 8b8082f30267410e4b3729439be23df8b803dde8
--

wpt-commits: 6a86d4a0632848f5049c6e9fcdd21f7ffb1d34c2
wpt-pr: 11840

UltraBlame original commit: 9b0a591cad8760a8bf2396c59a53491c06adf87b

testing/web-platform/tests/docs/_writing-tests/testdriver.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: testdriver.js Automation
order: 8.5
---

testdriver.js provides a means to automate tests that cannot be
written purely using web platform APIs.

It is currently supported only for [testharness.js][testharness]
tests.

## API

testdriver.js exposes its API through the `test_driver` variable in
the global scope.

NB: presently, testdriver.js only works in the top-level test browsing
context (and not therefore in any frame or window opened from it).

### `test_driver.bless(intent, action)`
#### `intent: a string describing the motivation for this invocation`
#### `action: an optional function`

This function simulates [activation][activation], allowing tests to
perform privileged operations that require user interaction. For
example, sandboxed iframes with the
`allow-top-navigation-by-user-activation` may only navigate their
parent's browsing context under these circumstances. The `intent`
string is presented to human operators when the test is not run in
automation.

This method returns a promise which is resolved with the result of
invoking the `action` function. If no such function is provided, the
promise is resolved with the value `undefined`.

Example:

```js
var mediaElement = document.createElement('video');

test_driver.bless('initiate media playback', function () {
  mediaElement.play();
});
```

### `test_driver.click(element)`
#### `element: a DOM Element object`

This function causes a click to occur on the target element (an
`Element` object), potentially scrolling the document to make it
possible to click it. It returns a `Promise` that resolves after the
click has occured or rejects if the element cannot be clicked (for
example, it is obscured by an element on top of it).

Note that if the element to be clicked does not have a unique ID, the
document must not have any DOM mutations made between the function
being called and the promise settling.

### `test_driver.send_keys(element, keys)`
#### `element: a DOM Element object`
#### `keys: string to send to the element`

This function causes the string `keys` to be send to the target
element (an `Element` object), potentially scrolling the document to
make it possible to send keys. It returns a `Promise` that resolves
after the keys have been send or rejects if the keys cannot be sent
to the element.

Note that if the element that's keys need to be send to does not have
a unique ID, the document must not have any DOM mutations made
between the function being called and the promise settling.

To send special keys, one must send the respective key's codepoint. Since this uses the WebDriver protocol, you can find a [list for code points to special keys in the spec](https://w3c.github.io/webdriver/webdriver-spec.html#keyboard-actions).
For example, to send the tab key you would send "\uE004".

[activation]: https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/interaction.html#activation
[testharness]: {{ site.baseurl }}{% link _writing-tests/testharness.md %}
