third_party/libwebrtc/g3doc/abseil-in-webrtc.md, before:

<!-- go/cmark -->
<!--* freshness: {owner: 'danilchap' reviewed: '2021-05-12'} *-->

# Using Abseil in WebRTC

You may use a subset of the utilities provided by the [Abseil][abseil]
library when writing WebRTC C++ code. Below, we list the explicitly
*allowed* and the explicitly *disallowed* subsets of Abseil; if you
find yourself in need of something that isn&rsquo;t in either subset,
please add it to the *allowed* subset in this doc in the same CL that
adds the first use.

[abseil]: https://abseil.io/about/


## How to depend on Abseil

For build targets of type `rtc_library`, `rtc_source_set` and
`rtc_static_library`, dependencies on Abseil need to be listed in `absl_deps`
instead of `deps`.

This is needed in order to support the Abseil component build in Chromium. In
that build mode, WebRTC will depend on a monolithic Abseil build target that
will generate a shared library.

## **Allowed**

* `absl::AnyInvocable`
* `absl::bind_front`
* `absl::Cleanup`
* `absl::InlinedVector`
* `absl::Nonnull` and `absl::Nullable`
* `absl::WrapUnique`
* `absl::optional` and related stuff from `absl/types/optional.h`.
* `absl::string_view`
* The functions in `absl/strings/ascii.h`, `absl/strings/match.h`,
  and `absl/strings/str_replace.h`.
* The functions in `absl/strings/escaping.h`.
* `absl::is_trivially_copy_constructible`,
  `absl::is_trivially_copy_assignable`, and
  `absl::is_trivially_destructible` from `absl/meta/type_traits.h`.
* `absl::variant` and related stuff from `absl/types/variant.h`.
* The functions in `absl/algorithm/algorithm.h` and
  `absl/algorithm/container.h`.
* `absl/base/const_init.h` for mutex initialization.
* The macros in `absl/base/attributes.h`, `absl/base/config.h` and
  `absl/base/macros.h`.
* `absl/numeric/bits.h`


## **Disallowed**

### `absl::make_unique`

*Use `std::make_unique` instead.*

### `absl::Mutex`

*Use `webrtc::Mutex` instead.*

Chromium has a ban on new static initializers, and `absl::Mutex` uses
one. To make `absl::Mutex` available, we would need to nicely ask the
Abseil team to remove that initializer (like they already did for a
spinlock initializer). Additionally, `absl::Mutex` handles time in a
way that may not be compatible with the rest of WebRTC.

### `absl::Span`

*Use `rtc::ArrayView` instead.*

`absl::Span` differs from `rtc::ArrayView` on several points, and both
of them differ from the `std::span` that was voted into
C++20&mdash;and `std::span` is likely to undergo further changes
before C++20 is finalized. We should just keep using `rtc::ArrayView`
and avoid `absl::Span` until C++20 is finalized and the Abseil team
has decided if they will change `absl::Span` to match.
[Bug](https://bugs.webrtc.org/9214).

### `absl::StrCat`, `absl::StrAppend`, `absl::StrJoin`, `absl::StrSplit`

*Use `rtc::SimpleStringBuilder` to build strings.*

These are optimized for speed, not binary size. Even `StrCat` calls
with a modest number of arguments can easily add several hundred bytes
to the binary.

Commit message:

Bug 1909234 - Vendor libwebrtc from ae5d50320d
Upstream commit: https://webrtc.googlesource.com/src/+/ae5d50320dcee86ee8b5d4c0b634efb1fe6d69f7
    Deprecate `absl_deps` in templates and update documentation.

    Bug: webrtc:341803749
    Change-Id: I1ea6a2160c9a1d6d15a4f5e83f37d53f42215746
    Reviewed-on: https://webrtc-review.googlesource.com/c/src/+/352200
    Auto-Submit: Florent Castelli <orphiswebrtc.org>
    Commit-Queue: Mirko Bonadei <mbonadeiwebrtc.org>
    Commit-Queue: Florent Castelli <orphiswebrtc.org>
    Reviewed-by: Mirko Bonadei <mbonadeiwebrtc.org>
    Cr-Commit-Position: refs/heads/main{#42382}

UltraBlame original commit: 88a74b9a5d64a2f316ccf750e56cb15bcca5b3e6

third_party/libwebrtc/g3doc/abseil-in-webrtc.md, after:

<!-- go/cmark -->
<!--* freshness: {owner: 'danilchap' reviewed: '2021-05-12'} *-->

# Using Abseil in WebRTC

You may use a subset of the utilities provided by the [Abseil][abseil]
library when writing WebRTC C++ code. Below, we list the explicitly
*allowed* and the explicitly *disallowed* subsets of Abseil; if you
find yourself in need of something that isn&rsquo;t in either subset,
please add it to the *allowed* subset in this doc in the same CL that
adds the first use.

[abseil]: https://abseil.io/about/


## How to depend on Abseil

For build targets of type `rtc_library`, `rtc_source_set` and
`rtc_static_library`, dependencies on Abseil need to be listed in `deps`.

The GN templates will take care of generating the proper dependency when
used within Chromium or standalone. In that build mode, WebRTC will depend
on a monolithic Abseil build target that will generate a shared library.

Previously, `absl_deps` was used but been deprecated in May 2024.

## **Allowed**

* `absl::AnyInvocable`
* `absl::bind_front`
* `absl::Cleanup`
* `absl::InlinedVector`
* `absl::Nonnull` and `absl::Nullable`
* `absl::WrapUnique`
* `absl::optional` and related stuff from `absl/types/optional.h`.
* `absl::string_view`
* The functions in `absl/strings/ascii.h`, `absl/strings/match.h`,
  and `absl/strings/str_replace.h`.
* The functions in `absl/strings/escaping.h`.
* `absl::is_trivially_copy_constructible`,
  `absl::is_trivially_copy_assignable`, and
  `absl::is_trivially_destructible` from `absl/meta/type_traits.h`.
* `absl::variant` and related stuff from `absl/types/variant.h`.
* The functions in `absl/algorithm/algorithm.h` and
  `absl/algorithm/container.h`.
* `absl/base/const_init.h` for mutex initialization.
* The macros in `absl/base/attributes.h`, `absl/base/config.h` and
  `absl/base/macros.h`.
* `absl/numeric/bits.h`


## **Disallowed**

### `absl::make_unique`

*Use `std::make_unique` instead.*

### `absl::Mutex`

*Use `webrtc::Mutex` instead.*

Chromium has a ban on new static initializers, and `absl::Mutex` uses
one. To make `absl::Mutex` available, we would need to nicely ask the
Abseil team to remove that initializer (like they already did for a
spinlock initializer). Additionally, `absl::Mutex` handles time in a
way that may not be compatible with the rest of WebRTC.

### `absl::Span`

*Use `rtc::ArrayView` instead.*

`absl::Span` differs from `rtc::ArrayView` on several points, and both
of them differ from the `std::span` that was voted into
C++20&mdash;and `std::span` is likely to undergo further changes
before C++20 is finalized. We should just keep using `rtc::ArrayView`
and avoid `absl::Span` until C++20 is finalized and the Abseil team
has decided if they will change `absl::Span` to match.
[Bug](https://bugs.webrtc.org/9214).

### `absl::StrCat`, `absl::StrAppend`, `absl::StrJoin`, `absl::StrSplit`

*Use `rtc::SimpleStringBuilder` to build strings.*

These are optimized for speed, not binary size. Even `StrCat` calls
with a modest number of arguments can easily add several hundred bytes
to the binary.
